Final Settlement
There shall be no delivery of hogs in settlement of this contract. All contracts open as of the termination
of trading shall be cash settled based upon the CME Lean Hog Index® for the two–day period ending
on the day on which trading terminates.
1. The Sample
The sample consists of all producer-sold negotiated, and swine or pork market formula and negotiated
formula barrows and gilts purchased on a lean value direct basis by packers for which the head count,
average net price and average carcass weight are reported in the “National Daily Direct Hog Prior Day
Report-Slaughtered Swine” released by the USDA.
2. The Calculation
The procedure for calculating the CME Lean Hog Index is as follows, using data reported on two
consecutive weekdays.
1. The daily head count for negotiated transactions is multiplied by the corresponding daily average
carcass weight to obtain the negotiated daily total weight;
2. The daily head count for swine or pork market formula transactions is multiplied by the
corresponding daily average carcass weight to obtain the swine or pork market formula daily total
weight;
3. The daily head count for negotiated formula transactions is multiplied by the corresponding daily
average carcass weight to obtain the negotiated formula daily total weight;
34. The daily totals for negotiated weight (i.e., the result from 1. above), and swine or pork market
formula weight (i.e., the result from 2. above) and negotiated formula weight (i.e., the result from 3.
above) are added to obtain the daily total weight;
45. The daily total weights (i.e., the result from 34. above) for two consecutively reported days are
aggregated to obtain the two–day total weight;
56. The negotiated daily total weight (i.e., the result from 1. above) is multiplied by the corresponding
daily average net price to obtain the negotiated daily total value;
67. The swine or pork market formula daily total weight (i.e., the result from 2. above) is multiplied by
the corresponding daily average net price to obtain the swine or pork market formula daily total
value;
8. The negotiated formula daily total weight (i.e., the result from 3. above) is multiplied by the
corresponding daily average net price to obtain the negotiated formula daily total value;
79. The daily totals for negotiated value (i.e., the result from 56. above), and swine or pork market
formula value (i.e. the result from 67. above) and negotiated formula value (i.e., the result from 8.
above) are added to obtain the daily total value;
810. The daily total values (i.e., the result from 79., above) for two consecutively reported days are
aggregated to obtain the two–day total value; and
911. The two–day total value (i.e., the result from 810., above) is divided by the two–day total weight
(i.e., the result from 45., above) to obtain the CME Lean Hog Index.
For the purposes of this rule, Friday of one week and Monday of the following week shall be considered
to be consecutive weekdays.
Also for the purposes of this rule, any days when the necessary data are not released by the USDA
shall not be considered weekdays, in which case the first weekday immediately preceding and the first
weekday immediately following such day(s) shall be considered two consecutive weekdays.